Beyond the Great Wall and the chain of rugged hills through which it snakes, workers are putting the finishing touches to a colossal edifice. The beam of its roof are curved with golden tiles, reminiscent of those that adorn the Forbidden City, 70km to the southeast. The building itself curves too, in a shape its architects say resembles a ruyi, a traditional Chinese talisman. They say it invokes a longing for fulfilment of the Chinese dream, which is a cherished slogan of China's leader Xi Jinping, whose wish was China should emerge as a global giant. As the state agency puts it, the building conveys the imposing manner of a great power. 

The China pavilion, as the structure is called, is for an international flower festival held in Yanqing, a satellite town of the capital. The show will open on April 29th, and last for more than five months. It will be the biggest expo of any kind that China has staged under the aegis of Paris-based bureau International des Expositions since Shanghai World Expo in 2010. It will be the biggest horticulture one ever held anywhere, and it will be the centerpiece of the largest political celebration in China in a decade, the 70th anniversary of the founding of the Communist State. The big day itself will be on October 1st, as the show enters its final week. 

The choreography of the coming year will convey Mr Xi's dream to perfection. In April, on a date to be announced, foreign leaders will gather in Beijing to discuss the president's Belt and Road Initiative, a scheme involving billions of dollars of Chinese loans to and investment in infrastructure projects around the world. A senior Chinese diplomat has said it will be the most important diplomatic event in China this year. The clout that countries wield with economic largesse is sometimes described as hard powe. More power of an even harder kind is likely to be shown off on October 1st when, if tradition is to be upheld, the country's armed might will be paraded through central Beijing, tanks, jets, nuclear missiles and thousands of troops shouting "Hello Chairman" to their commander in chief, Mr Xi.

The flower expo will be the soft power filling between these events and involve many times more people, 16 million visitors are expected, organisers say. Officials are keen to ensure that a record number of countries and international organisations would put on display at the expo, they have succeeded. At least 110 have signed up. Many people in the capital are unaware of the scale of what will soon unfold. The site in Yanqing is on the outer periphery of Beijing municipality, far beyond its urban core. The Great Wall at Badaling is Yanqing's biggest attraction. For now, tourists have little reason to head beyond it to the district's main town, near to which, on requisitioned farmland, the expo will be held. It will be the biggest international festival in Beijing since it stage the Olympics in 2008.

On the riverside spot thousands of workers have built a 960 hectare park, half as big as the one make for the Olympics, which was previously the city's record setter. The expo will fill the new park, with its enclosed area covering more than half of it.

The event will be of huge political importance, this can be reflected in its heavy weight line-up organizing committee. It includes some of the country's most powerful officials. Two of them are members of the ruling Politburo, Hu Chunhua, who is the deputy prime minister, and Caiqi, who is the party chief of Beijing. Mr Cai calls this event a glorious political task handed to the city by central leadership. Also on the team are 18 deputy heads of ministries, including those in charge of China's police and spies, and Jiang Zehui, a first cousin and adoptive sister the Jiang Zemin, the former president.
Organisers have been told to let their work be guided by Xi Jinping's thought, they have clearly followed order. The event will be suffused with symbolic references to Mr Xi's favorate topics, from pursuing the Chinese dream to creating a beautiful China. The official theme of the show:"Live green, live better", echoes his call for a better environment. The fact that the show will be held in a city so acutely short of water appears not to worry officials. A diversion scheme that brings water from distant Yangzi river basin began supplementing the city's supply in 2014, this has freed up a reservior near the expo site to ensure the plants stay moist. 
To ease the flow of visitors, the city is on an spree of infrastructure spending. There are already two motorways, G6 and G7, that lead to Yanqing, visitors to the Great Wall often use them. But they are frequently congested. On January 1st, a new express way, more than 40km long, was opened. It connects Yanqing with the northern suburb of Beijing. Planning documents for the new road, called Xingyan, make it clear that the expo has been at least one of the main reasons for building it to this schedule. It has cost more than 13 billion Yuan and involved boring a 5.9km tunnel beneath the Great Wall, about half the length of the one beneath Blac Mont, and the longest in Beijing's road network. It has also been controversial, some environmentalists say this route threatens a ecologically sensitive area.
Officials say this new road will also be of help for the Winter Olympics, part of which will be held in Yanqing, another part in the neighboring province of Hebei. But extending the motor way to Hebei has created a new problem, the road cuts along one edge of the new park. To avoid spoiling the view, planners decided to build a 2km tunel beneath the park and under the Guishui river which flows through it. For all the green-themed rhetoric, fossil fueled cars will play a big role during the expo, ten car parks with a total of 22,000 spaces have been built for those who prefer to drive there.

The view is crucial. Near the China pavilion workers have built a hill, on the top of which they are erecting a huge four storey pavilion in ancient archetechture style. This has involved a team of nearly 300 craftsmen skilled in traditional techniques. It will provide visitors with a vantage point from which to survey the expo site and the hills 10km away on which the Great Wall can be dimly discerned. This is important, organisers like to call the event an horticultural show at the foot of the Great Wall, aiming for a soft-power multiplier effect, the view from the pavilion provides proof of this link, on a good day. Smog sometimes renders even the hills invisible, let alone the wall.

But above all, it is the flowers that the party hopes will make its soft power point. It loves them as a political tool. To mark the anniversary of the communist rule, Tiananmen Square is adorned every year with huge floral arrangments. The centerpiece in 2018 was in the form of a basket shaped object with pedals radiating from its base, 17 meters high and 50 meters across, an assemblage of potted plants with, as always, a message. State media said this symbolised the unity of the Chines people with the party with Mr Xi as the core. 

International horticultural festivals are normally less to do with national origins of plant species, and more about showing them off and sharing expertise in cultivating them. Beijing's expo will be different. One of its aims will be to highlight the global impact of Chinese flora. Visitors will be reminded that everything from rice and tea to many plants that are grown in western gardens have Chinese origins. In April, the state television will begin showing a ten part series called Chinese plants that have changed the world. 

Officials worry that some Chinese may not be in the mood for celebration as the economy slows and mutterings grow about Mr Xi's leadership. During the expo there will be sensitive dates that dissidents will be eager to mark. The first will occur just a few days after the show opens: the 100th anniversary of a student movement on May 4th that led to calls for "Mr Sciense" and "Mr Democracy" to be welcomed in China. The party offically marks May 4th as the youth day, but it fears appropriation of it by disaffected younsters. The movement's 70th anniversary in 1989 gave huge impetus to the pro-democracy unrest that engulfed the country that year. On June 4th it will be the 30th anniversary of crushing those protests. Police will be on full alert. Stirrings of activism on some university campuses have already spooked them. A handful of students at Peking University staged a rare on campuse protest on December 28th against official inerference in their Marxist student society.

Around the expo itself, some people are grumbling. Building the venue and new infrastructure has involved relocating hundreds, possibly thousands of people. In Yanqing, authorities have used the expo and the game as a reason to know down slums. A handful of residents who have refused to move vent anger at local officials for offering what they regard as derisory sums in compensation. "Bandits" fumes a women. "This is all just an excuse to get money into their pocket" says a 75-year-old retiree.

In downtown Beijing, residents have other reasons to seethe. Since November 2017, after 19 migrant workers were killed in a fire in the south of the city, the authorities have been using the pretext of fire safty to accelerate their effort to push migrants out of the city by closing places where they work and the ramshackle housing in which they are living. As a result, many of Beijing's markets have been shut down. Ironically, they include those selling cut flowers.

Chairmen Mao briefly encouraged dissent by saying the immortal words "Let a hundred flowers bloom, let a hundred schools of thought contend", before imprisoning and persecuting those who took hi at his words. No one, however, is likely to misinterpret the party's signal in a year that will be florescent with symbolism. As the party often remind its officials around the country, unrest should be nipped in the bud.
