Beyond the Great Wall and the chain of rugged hills through which it snakes, workers are putting the finishing touches to a colossal edifice. The beams of its roof are curved, with golden tiles reminiscent of those that adorn the Forbidden City, 70km to the south-east. The building itself curves, too, in a shape its architects say resembles a ruyi, a traditional Chinese talisman. They say it invokes the longing for fulfilment of the Chinese dream, that is a cherished slogan of China's leader, Xi Jinping, whose wish is that China should emerge as a global giant. As the state media puts it, this building conveys the "imposing manner of a great power".

The China Pavilion, as the structure is called, is for an international flower festival in Yanqing, a satellite town of the capital. The show will open on April 29th, and last for more than 5 months. It will be the biggest expo of any kind that China has staged under the Paris based Bureau International des exposition since Shanghai world expo in 2010. It will be the biggest horticultural one ever held anywhere, and it will be the centrepiece of the largest political celebration in China in a decade, the 70th anniversary of the founding of the Communist state. The big day itself will be on October 1st, as the show enters its final week.

The choreography of the comming year will convey Mr Xi's dream to perfection. In April, on a date to be announced, foreign leaders will gather in Beijing to discuss the Belt and Road Initiative, a scheme involving billions of dollars of Chinese loans to and investment in infrastructure projects around the world. A senior Chinese diplomat has said this will be the most important diplimatic event in China this year. The clout wielded by countries with economic largesse is often described as hard power, more power of an even harder kind is likely to be shown off on October 1st when, if tradition is upheld, the country's armed might will be paraded through central Beijing. Tanks, jets, nuclear missiles and thousands of troops shouting "Hello Chairman" to their commander in chief Mr Xi.

The flower show will be the soft power filling between the events and involve many times more people, more than 16 million visitors are expected, says organisers. Officials are keen to ensure a record number of countries and international organization would put on displays at the expo, they have succeeded, at least 110 have signed up.

Many people in the capital are unware of the scale of what will soon unfold. The site in Yanqing is on the outer periphery of Beijing municipality, far beyond its urban core. The Great Wall at Badaling is Yanqing's biggest attraction. For now, tourists have little reason to head beyond it to the district's main town, near to which, on requisitioned farmland, the expo will be held. It will be the biggest international festival since it staged the Olympic games in 2008.

On the riverside spot, thousands of workers have built a 960-hectare park, half as big as the one made for the Olympics, which was previously the city's record setter. The expo will fill the new park, with its enclosed area covering more than half of it.

It will be of huge political importance, this can be reflected in the heavyweight line-up of its organising committee. It includes some of the country's most powerful officials, two of them are members of the ruling politburo: Hu Chunhua, who is the deputy prime minister and Cai Qi, the party chief of Beijing. Mr Cai calls the expo a glorious political task handed to the city by the central leadership. Also on the team are 18 deputy heads of ministries, including thoses in charge of police and spies, and Jiang Zehui, a first cousin and adoptive sister of Jiang Zemin, the former president.

Organisers have been told to let their work be guided by Xi Jinping thought,they have clearly followed orders. The expo will be suffused with symbolic references to Mr Xi's favorate topics, from Chinese dream to creating a beautiful China, the expo's official theme, "Live Green, Live Better" echos his calls for better environment. The fact that the show is held in a city that so acutely short of water appears not to worry officials. A division scheme that brings water from distant Yangzi river basin began supplementing the city's supply in 2014. This has freed up a reservior near the expo site to ensure the plants stays moist.

To ease the flow of visitors, the city has been on an infrastructure spending spree. There are already two motor ways that lead to Yanqing, G6 and G7, visitors to the Great Wall often use them. But they are frequently congested. On January 1st a new expressway, more than 40km long, was opened. It connects the northern suburbs of the capital with Yanqing. Planning documents for the new road, called Xingyan, make it clear that the expo has been one of the main reasons for building it to its schedule. It has cost more than 13 billion Yuan and involed boring a 5.9km tunnel beneath the Great Wall, about half the length of the one beneath Mont Blac and the longest in Beijing's road network. It has also been controvisial: some environmentalists say the route threatens an ecologically sensitive area.

Officials say the new road will also be of help for the Winter Olympics in 2022, part of which will be held in Yanqing, and another part in the neighboring province of Hebei. But extending the motorway to Hebei has created a problem, the road cuts along one edge of the new park. To avoid spoiling the view, planners decide to build a 2km tunnel beneath the park, and under the Guishui river which flows through it. Despite all the green themed rhetoric of the expo, fossil fueled cars will play a big part in the show. Ten car parks with a total of 22,000 spaces have been built for those who prefer to driver there.

The view is crucial. Near the China Pavilion workers have built a hill on the top of which they are erecting a huge four storey pavilion in ancient architectural style. This has involed a team of nearly 300 craftsmen skilled in traditional techniques. It will provide visitors with a vantage point from which to survey the expo site and the hills 10km away on which the Great Wall can be dimly discerned. This is important, organisers like to call this show the horticulture expo at the foot of the Great Wall, aiming for a soft-power multiplier effect. The view from the pavilion provides proof of the link, on a good day. Smog sometimes renders even the hill invisible, let alone the wall.

But above all, it is the flowers that the party hopes will make its soft power point. It loves them as a political tool. To mark the anniversary of the Communist rule, Tiananmen Square is adorned with huge floral arrangements every year. The centrepiece in 2018 was in the form of a basket-shaped object with petals radiating from its base - 17 meters high and 50 meters across - assemblage of potting plants with, as always, a message. The state media said it symbolised the Chinese people' unity with the party with "comrade Xi as the core". 

International horticultral shows are normally less to do with national origins of plant species, and more about showing them off and sharing the expertise in cultivating them. Beijing's show will be different. One of its aims is to highlight the global impact of Chinese plants. Visitors will be reminded that everything from tea and rice to many plants that are grown in western gardern, have Chinese origin. In April the State television will begin showing a ten part series called "Chinese plants that have changed the world".

Officials worry that some Chinese may not be in a mood for celebration as the economy slows and mutterings grow about Mr Xi's leadership. During the expo there will be sensitive dates that dissidents will be eager to mark. The first occurs just a few days after the expo open: The 100th anniversary on May 4th of a student movement that let to the calls for "Mr Science" and "Mr Democrocy" to be welcomed in China. The party officially mark May 4th as the youth's day, but it fears the appropriation of it by disaffected youngsters. The movement's 70th anniversary in 1989 gave huge impetus to a pro-democracy unrest that engulfed the whole country that year, On June 4th it will be the 30th anniversary of the crushing those protests. Police will be on full alert. Stirrings of activism on some university campus have already spooked them. A handful of students at Peking University staged a rare on-campus protest on December 28th against official interference in their Marxist student society. 

Around the expo site itself, some people are grumbling. Building the venue and the new infrastructure has involved relocating hundreds, possibly thousands of people. In Yanqing the authority has used the expo and the games as a reason to knowck down slums. A handful of residents who have refused to move vent anger at local officials for offering what they regard as derisory sums in compensation. "Bandits" fumes a women. "This is all just an excuse to get money into their pockets," says a 75-year-old retiree.

In downtown Beijing, residents have other reason to seethe. Since November 2017, when 19 migrant worker were killed in a fire in the south of the city, the authorities have been using the pretext of fire safety to accelerate their efforts to push migrants out of the city by closing places where they workand the ramshackle housing in which they live. As a result, many of Beijing's markets have been shut down. Ironically, they include those selling cut flowers.

Chairman Mao briefly encouraged dissent with the immortal words "Let a hundred flowers bloom, let a hundred schools of thought contend" before imprisoning and persecuting hundreds of thousands of those who took him at his word. No one, howerver, is likely to misinterpret the party's signals in a year that will be florescent with symblism. As the party often reminds officials around the country, unrest should be nipped in the bud.
