One year before Mr Xi became China's leader, a 47-year-old professor at Peking University, Zhang Qianfan, delivered a talk to mark the 100th anniversary of the collapse of China's last imperial dynasty, in 1911, charting the history of effort since then to instil respect for constitutional principles. Students unable to find seats in the packed lecture theatre stood shoulder to shoulder around the walls, They grinned and clapped when he started by saying:" I have written down my true feeling, they may sound fierce, forgive me if they cause offence".

The thin, bespectacled academic held his audience spellbound. Those unable to find space in the room, had crowded by the doorway, were still there when he finished, almost two hours later. That was fortunate, because his final point was the most powerful in a lecture packed with indictments of China's failure to implement the guarantees of its constitution, including freedom of speech, of assembly and of association. Mr Zhang wrapped up by listing 12 places where authoritarian rules had (at least briefly) crumbled, from the Soviet Union to Taiwan to countries that had recently experienced the Arab Spring. "What their people can do" he said, "the Chinese" here he paused briefly while the audience begun to laugh and clap, "can certainly do", wild appause ensued, someone cried, "Good".

Such a scene was extraordinary even at the time. The authorities were determined to prevent any attempts to replicate the Arab uprising, anonymous calls online for public gatherings in support of them drew more police than protesters. Mr Zhang says he was reprimanded for his speech, invitations for him to talk on campuses dried up, but he kept his job. Remarkably, his textbook, "An introduction to the study of constitutional law", first published in 2004, was republished by Law Press, which is controlled by the mininstry of Justice. The preface sets the tone:" The study of constituional law must break down forbidden ideological zones, because the rights of Chinese citizens accept no forbidden zones".

Mr Xi initially appeared to agree, at least rhetorically. In 2012, shortly after he took power, he gave a striking speech on the supremacy of the constitution and how no organization or individial should stand above it. That is when ceremonies to swear allegiance to the constitution, such as the one pictured, proliferated. But it soon became clear that his main interest was in Artical 1, which says disruption of socialist system by any organization or individial is prohibited. In 2015, after small protest broke out in the southern city of Guangzhou over sensors' effort to prevent a newpaper from publishing an editorial in praise of constitutionalism, state media launched a propaganda offensive against the term, saying it was just another way of calling for Western style democracy. To the dismay of liberals, Mr Xi secured a constitution revision last year that allow him to remain president for life.

Under his rule, the communist party has been waging its roughest campaign against dissent and liberal values since the aftermath of Tiananmen Square protests nearly 30 years ago. In 2015, police rounded up hundreds of lawyers and legal activities who had been trying to help citizens to use the court to reverse injustice perpetrated by officials, the kind of cases that, as Mr Zhang says in his text book, that touch on constitutional matters, not just ordinary legal ones. Many of the detainees have been released, but banned from doing legal work and kept under surveillance. Some have been tried and imprisoned, the final related trial ended on January 28th, with the sentencing of Wang Quanzhang, an human rights lawyer, to 4-and-half year in prison, for subversion.

Now the party are focusing more closely on campuses where many legal scholars still support constitutionalism. The party is right, the word for this, xianzheng, is often just a veiled way of refering to Western-style democracy, or at any rate, just the nice bits of constitution. In January the ministry of Education ordered every University to report to authorities which textbooks they were using for constitutional study. They said reasons for this thorough investigation include the need to implement Xi Jinping thought on socialism with Chinese characteristics for the new era and revise and improve textbooks in a timely manner.

Mr Zhang's famous textbook is likely to be a victim of this purge that is all but sure to follow, there is evidents that this book has been in the party's sight. In the last few days online book shops have stopped selling it. Those trying to buy see messages such as this product has been removed from the shelve, or the case of Amazon's website in China, "The stock is currently not available". Censors, however, have yet to eradicate a pirated digital version of this book, a link to which was circulated in late January on Weibo, a microblog site, by an academic from central China.

The authorities have long tried to impose othodoxy on campuses. In 2015 they ordered tighter control on the use of imported books which spread western values. The minister of Education urged universities to ensure that comments in classrooms do not attack or defame the rule of the party or smear socialism, Nor, he said, should they "violate the constitution or laws", meaning, presumably, the bits of the constitution that affirm the party's primacy. Closed-Circate television cameras have been installed in many lecture theatres to allow classes to be monitored. About 15 years ago, the government launched what it called "Marxism theory research and construction project" to produce sanitised textbooks. Some universities have begun to demand that only these be used for legal studies.

Inspite of this, and the occasional sackings of academics for their political views, elite institutes are still full of liberals. Mr Zhang reckons that there are probably thousands of people who teach constitutional law in China, he suspects most of them share his views. Cracking down is hard, many academics at leading universities are people who have studied in the west, Mr Zhang has a phd in biophysics from Carnegie Mellon University and another one in the theory of government from the University of Texas at Austin. Purging these professors would be a huge setback for China's efforts to attract talent from abroad and create world class universities.

But a sensitive year lies ahead. Officials are mindful of two looming anniversaries: the 100th of a student movement called for China to introduce Western Science and Democracy on May 4th; and the 30th of the bloody suppression of the Tiananmen Square protests, which were also led by students, on June 4th. Mr Zhang's institution, Peking University played a central role in both upheavals. In the coming months, the authorities would be more than usually worried about scholars who inspire their students with liberal values.

Some students clearly support Mr Zhang. On Peking University's chat forum, some messages have appeared criticising the removal of Mr Zhang's text book from online bookshops. But also some attacking him as well. Mr Zhangs says if he was able to give another lecture: like the one he gave in 2011, students would be even more supportive than they were then. "We are moving even further away from constitutionalism, every one can feel the restriction of speech, more people are discontented about our political reality today".
